now as you kick your feet up with the
remote and cozy up to watch the
television today be warned your TV could
be watching you
manufacturer LG is investigating claims
that its line of Smart TVs is collecting
data on its customers a uk-based
IT consultant wrote about the discovery
and found a corporate video that boasts
quote LG Smart ads analyzes users
favorite programs online behavior search
keywords and other information to offer
relevant ads to target audiences for
example LG Smart ad can feature sharp
suits to men or alluring cosmetics and
fragrances to women upon further
investigation the consultant found that
this data collection happens even if the
user turns that setting off so is this
changing the channel on your privacy
well RT web producer Andrew Blake has
been watching TV all day in preparation
for this do you know it hopefully you've
been watching something good maybe a
little bit of RT but is this TV
surveillance the same thing as what
Internet companies have been doing like
Google for instance no well I mean yes
in the sense that this is sensitive
information that's being provided to
someone unwittingly but you know this
this isn't you're not logging on to
Gmail you're not going to type up search
queries in Google you're not doing bank
information on your TV at least not yet
not my TV my TV is ancient it doesn't
have any of this cool stuff but but what
was happening here was that this this
British fella the IT consultant
discovered that when he had his LG Smart
TV on even when he was able to feature
that collected information about his
viewing habits even when he disabled
that hit that information was still
nonetheless being collected being
transmitted back to LG and all done
completely unencrypted so anyone who was
smart enough can figure out what he was
doing and was collecting all sorts of
data you know like I said not you know
the sense of stuff that we do on our
laptops or on her personal computers but
still enough that would really cause
many people to be alarmed so what type
of monitoring are we talking about here
okay it was actually found a couple
different things what this fella a Jason
Huntley is the blogger who discovered
this just the other day and he came up
with a few different
one even if you disable this function
which normally records information about
your viewing habits disabling it does
nothing apparently what he discovered
was that if he changes the channel from
one station to another his TV records
that channel change and it says that
here's a guy who's now watching BBC and
that information is then sent to LG and
they know that oh here's a guy who cares
about the news maybe he's British hey he
is perfect right but was doing other
stuff too one thing that was really
spooky that kind of had him worried was
you know these TVs not mine obviously
because it's garbage but these fancy TVs
we can hook up USB sticks and all other
sort of external devices to them so you
can I don't know do all sorts of nerdy
stuff on your giant plasma or whatever
so what this guy did was he took a USB
stick and he loaded up with some files
particularly in one file it was called
midget porn AVI it was not a
pornographic movie it was just a fake
file but what he did was when he plugged
it into his TV and he looked to see at
what kind of traffic internet traffic
was going out of his house he could see
but even though he disabled all these
functions LG was still being fed
information about not just what channels
he was surfing to but
what files were connected to his TV so
now all of a sudden LG thinks that this
guy's watching something called midget
porn dot avi and I mean he's not it's
just a file that's connected the back
this computer so it raises all sorts of
questions about what these companies are
collecting now I do want to pivot the
conversation now it's the United Nations
countries like Germany and Brazil have
been pushing to kind of change and
expand privacy rights considering
everything that went on with the NSA
leaks so what exactly is a proposal
that's on the table in the UN right now
so I mean there's a lot of people are
upset about what the NSA has been doing
you know not just even here and
obviously Germany and Brazil are going
to be a bit peeved after all they had
you know their rather high ranking
leaders subject to NSA surveillance so
obviously they're going to get a little
upset so there's a UN draft resolutions
being passed around right now it could
be approved as early as next week and
what it would do in theory was it would
expand upon the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights
was a international UN treaty passed I
believe in 1966 somewhere around there
and it has different provisions from
that talk about what kind of privacy
rights people have well Germany Brazil
want to expand it so that your online
privacy rights are also connected or
also protected under this UN Charter
which is great that's that seems to make
sense
online privacy as we do more things
online is becoming just as significant
as real life privacy IRL in real life
that's what we see on the Internet so
Germany Brazil they want to switch
things up and us on the surface on the
public eye is you know saying yeah go
right ahead that's awesome but foreign
policy I believe just had something
earlier today about a leaked memo that
was being passed around by US
representatives over at the UN
headquarters that was saying okay well
let's take these Brazilian and use
German talking points and let's
restructure them a little bit because
sure maybe we can get them maybe we can
get away with having them do this new
privacy thing but you know we really
want to keep doing that whole spying
thing too so the NSA wants to rewrite it
so unlawful surveillance is bad but
according the NSA everything that
they're doing is absolutely by the books
and a ok so we'll have to see you next
week what happens with that RT web
producer Andrew Blake thank you so much
for filling us in on all that and I
think we're gonna have to invest in a
new television for Christmas or
something for you right around the
corner thank you